[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: The second tenant of call back L.
Well, I'm gonna fundamentally declare or
assert that callbacks are not reasonable.
And I highlight reason to say suggest
I don't mean reasonable in the sense
of like likeable.
I mean reasonable,
they are not able to be reasoned about.
Let me try to illustrate.
How many of you have ever heard before or
said before to yourself,
I'm a multitasker?
Anybody ever say that before?
It's pretty common.
People talk about, I'm driving down
the street, I'm talking on the phone and
texting, I have my laptop in the seat next
to me, and listening to the radio, and
Mom is on the phone.
Doing a whole bunch of
stuff on multitasking.
Well that's nonsense.
We're not actually multitaskers.
At our highest level of cognition,
which is the only part that
I care about right now.
I'm not a neuroscientist, so I'm not
really speaking as a neuroscientist.
But from what I know and
from what we can observe,
at our highest level of cognition, our
brains are fundamentally single threaded.
At any given instant our brain
is only thinking about and
cognitively thinking
about one exact thing.
Plenty of other parts of our brain are
taking care of all the other out of some
of things like our heart and
breathing and all that other stuff.
I'm not talking about that.
I'm talking about the highest level
of cognition the part where we
are intentionally planning and
thinking about things.
And at that part we're only thinking
about one thing at that exact moment.
So, let's imagine this
morning when you all woke up.
This morning you thought to yourself,
I gotta planned out my day.
So, when you woke up, you started planning
a day like, well I got to get some coffee,
and I'll hop in the shower.
And then I'll get in the car and drive
to work and then I'll head over to this
workshop and you planned out your day in
a very sequential step by step fashion.
Virtually all of us our brains
would say that's our brains work,
we think about things in
a very sequential fashion.
However, I'm also willing to
bet that virtually none of you
had your morning play out
exactly the way you planned.
You were up making some coffee and then
your mom called, so you got interrupted by
that call that wasn't part of the plan and
then this other stuff happened and
your car was out of gas and
your plan had to change.
And thankfully you didn't have
when your mom called me like,
well there's the whole day
shot I didn't plan for that.
So, I better just go back to bed and
start of tomorrow.
Your brain thankfully is interesting
a lot like the JavaScript engine,
in that it can be interrupted event wise.
Like an event, you can have an event fire
and it can choose to respond in a just.
But that's not the part we care about,
the part that we care about here
is the part of our cognition
where we planned things.
And fundamentally, what I'm gonna argue
is that we naturally plan things and
sequential synchronous
step by step fashion.
So, if that's how we plan things,
that's also how we code, most naturally.
Now I have a theory here.
This is not a law, it's as close to as
proven a law as I can probably get.
I have this theory that any
place where our brain diverges
from the way the JavaScript engine works.
At that moment where
the two diverged it is at
that moment that bugs happen in our code.
Wherever our brains diverged from
the way the JavaScript and yours.
I can't do anything about how
the JavaScript engine works.
It just works that way I can
teach you better about it,
try to train your brains better.
But I can also try to offer you patterns
that allow you to program more naturally
like your brain, so that there
are hopefully less bugs in your program.
That's basically my theory of teaching.
How do I train you to write your code,
so that it works more like your brain so
that there's less divergence and
less bugs.
So, it's more reasonable,
it's more understandable.
We see callback don't really offer
us much accordance in that way.
Because we could think about it
from a pseudo task perspective
like you know what I
love about pseudo code?
Pseudo code awesome because you just get
to invent magical stuff out of thin air.
I wish I could get paid to
write pseudo code all day,
cuz it'd be the funnest job in the world.
I get to invent stuff like on
line three where I invent pause.
This magical thing that I invoke called
pause, which doesn't actually exist, but
it doesn't matter cuz it's a pseudo code.
And then, on line what is it,
on line 9 I invent this other thing
that also doesn't exist called resume.
I just magically pick up
where line 3 left off, right?
That's how I'd write
this out in pseudo code.
But as soon as a developer got hold of it,
he'd say no no no, this,
you're just making stuff up.
That's is not how it works.
So, they'd begin to rearrange things, and
they might rearrange
the pseudo code like that.
And they say well, we can do this pause
and resume thing and then a pause and
resume and see what we've done now?
We've started to implement this
is a series of nested callbacks.
Because callbacks alone that's
the only way for us to express and
listen here's a here's a fancy term for
you.
Temporal dependency.
When one thing depends upon another thing
finishing before this thing can go,
that's a temporal dependency.
And the only way with callbacks for us to
express temporal dependency is nesting one
inside of the other, the call to one
inside of the call to the other.
Whether we do so
within line function expressions or
with just the function calls.
The only way to handle temporal dependency
in callback alone, is through nesting.
Why is that such a problem?
The reason it's such a problem is now your
brain doesn't get to linearly progress
through the code.
Your brain has to do what
I call non-local jumps.
Here's a metaphor for you.
How many of you remember way, way back.
I'm talking like mid 80s,
the original Nintendo.
And my favorite game of all time in
the original, and into Legend of Zelda.
Anybody remember have to leave
the thing running forever and
play it would take weeks
to play through whatever.
You know what I loved about that game
though there is one part you would go
into a cave.
And all of the sudden the screen
would go completely black.
Except for this tiny little circle around
link where he's holding his torch up.
And you can see just a small little
portion of the map at any given moment.
Now you can move link all over the cave
you could see the entire map but only this
little circle at a time you could not
see the entire thing all at once.
That's what modern JavaScript
programming is today.
Modern asynchronous
JavaScript programming.
Now this is not a knock on any individual
person listening to this to suggest that
you are just fundamentally
bad programmers.
We are all limited in this fashion,
that the complexity of asynchronous flow
control that happens in our programs?
There is no developer on your team that
understands all of those flow paths.
It's just it's beyond our
capacity to understand.
You might get step one,
then step two, then step three.
But as soon as you get like step one,
two and three at the same time and
when these two finish fire it off here and
there, you're completely lost.
You can understand only just this
small little portion you get that and
then you move over here and
you understand this part.
And then you move over here and
And heaven forbid when those parts
are where the callbacks are jumping around
between the files of your program.
And you're fundamentally not able to plan
out your program the way your brain works.
Cuz callbacks alone don't have
a way of expressing things,
in a sequential synchronous
looking fashion.
It seems like it's almost
impossible to do it.
Doesn't it?
Doesn't that seem like almost a unicorn
like there is no way to do asynchronous
coding in a synchronous fashion.
That's like having false be true at
the same time, that seems impossible.
When going all the trouble to talk
about this to suggest actually it is
quite possible.
But that's why we need a better pattern.
Because what we need to do to solve
callback hell is to be able to express
our code in a synchronous sequential
fashion the way our brains think.
So, when we write code like that first
half of my program then the second
half of my program.
And we think to ourselves that it's
like blocking 1000 milliseconds.
Which doesn't really exist in the
JavaScript engines is actually I'm gonna
do a whole bunch other stuff during that.
But we need to do is restore the ability
to express things in a synchronous
sequential looking fashion.
>> Kyle: That's
the other part of callback
hell that we need to
fix to make our synchronous code
fundamentally more reasonable.